This goal of this project is to understand distillation of models.
The main idea is to train a smaller model (student) to mimic the behavior of a larger model (teacher). 
The student model is trained using the ground truth labels and the outputs of the teacher model as soft labels, 
which can provide more information than hard labels.
Since the outputs of the teacher model are the "probability" distribution over the classes, 
the student model can learn to generalise better by capturing the teacher's knowledge.

Here, we train the student model to do food classification and the dataset is identical to the one used in HW3.
And the teacher model is a ResNet-50 pre-trained on ImageNet and fine-tuned on the food classification dataset.
The dataset contains labeled and unlabeled images. So, semi-supervised learning here refers to use the teacher model to generate pseudo-labels for the unlabeled data.
We also implemented cutmix data augmentation, which is a technique that combines two images by cutting and pasting a patch from one image onto another.
The cutmix technique can help the model to learn more robust features and improve generalization.

We try different architectures for the student model, including a simple CNN, a deeper CNN with residual connections, and a transformer-based model.
Here is the details of the models:
v1 (StudentNet): A CNN with 4 full convolutional layers and 1 fully connected layers with MaxPooling, AdaptiveAvgPool2d, BatchNorm and ReLU activation functions.
v2 (StudentNet_DPGC_Residual): A CNN network. however, we seperate the full convolutional layer into dephtwise convolution (D), pointwise convolution (P) and group convolution (G), 
    and we define DPG block as a combination of these three types of convolution. The input and output of the DPG block are connected by a residual connection.
    v2 has 5 DPG blocks and 1 fully connected layer with MaxPooling, AdaptiveAvgPool2d, BatchNorm and ReLU activation functions.
    By using DPG blocks, we can maintain the number of parameters while increasing the depth of the network, which can help to improve the performance.
v3 (StudentNet_DPGC_Residual_Transformer): A CNN network with 4 DPG blocks, a transformer block, a SelfAttentionPooling layer and a fully connected layer. 
    The transformer block is added after the 4 DPG blocks to capture long-range dependencies in the feature maps. 
    The SelfAttentionPooling layer is used to aggregate the features from the transformer block before the fully connected layer.

It is worth to note that the number of parameters in all three student models is less than 100,000, 
which is significantly smaller than the teacher model (ResNet-50 has around 25.5 million parameters).
Also, we accept the pseudo-labels generated by the teacher model only when the confidence of the teacher's prediction is above a certain threshold (0.8 in our case).
And all the accepted pseudo-labels are added to the training set, which can help to improve the performance of the student model.
The labelled training set and the validation set are included in the dataset, accuracy mentined below is calculated on the validation set.

Performance:
In v1, the optimiser if AdamW, and the lose function is a combination of cross-entropy loss and KL divergence loss.
v1 alpha = 0.5, T = 10.0: 0.66818
v1 alpha = 0.4, T = 10.0: 0.66818 (what a surprise, the same result as alpha = 0.5)
v1 alpha = 0.5, T = 5: 0.67576
v1 alpha = 0.5, T = 15: 0.68939 (Best)

In v2, the optimiser if AdamW, and the lose function is a combination of cross-entropy loss and KL divergence loss.
v2 alpha = 0.5, T = 10.0: 0.68636
v2 alpha = 0.5, T = 15: 0.70758
v2 alpha = 0.5, T = 20.0: 0.74545 (Best)

In v3, the optimiser if AdamW plus SGD, and the lose function is a combination of cross-entropy loss and KL divergence loss.
I have lost the record of the performance of v3, but I remember that it is always worse than v2, which is quite surprising. 
The best performance of v3 is around 0.63.
The transformer block siginificantly increases the number of parameters in the model, which lead to reduce the number of DPG blocks we can use.
Also, we faltern the features from DPG blocks before feeding them into the transformer block, which may lead to loss of information.
Overall, the performance of v2 is the best among the three student models, 
suggesting that the DPG blocks and the residual connections can help to improve the performance.
We will not spend more time on v3 since training transformer-based models can be computationally expensive and time-consuming.

Baselines from NTU course: 
Basic: accuracy >= 0.59856
Medium: accuracy >= 0.65412
Strong: accuracy >= 0.72819

Luckily, our best model (v2 with alpha = 0.5 and T = 20.0) achieves an accuracy of 0.74545, which is better than the strong baseline.


